Structurally, the nervous system is classified
into the central nervous system and the
peripheral nervous system.
The central nervous system consists of the
brain and spinal cord.
The brain receives sensory information and
controls responses such as movement
behavior, memory, and thoughts.
The spinal cord communicates with the
peripheral nervous system, conducting
information to and from the brain.
Two types of neurons are found in the
peripheral nervous system.
The sensory neurons, connect to the eyes,
ears. and skin. and other sites where stimuli
are received.
The motor neurons connect the central nervous
system to glands and muscles.
Motor neurons constitute the autonomic and
somatic nervous systems.
The autonomic nervous system controls
involuntary responses, and the sympathetic
component increases activity and the
parasympathetic system reduces activity.
Both regulate organs such as glands, smooth
muscle in the stomach, and heart muscle.
The somatic nervous system controls voluntary
responses, such as the movement of
muscles.